README.md, before:

# homeassistant-airzone
Home Assistant Custom component to manage Aironze installations.
It relays on the [python-airzone](https://pypi.org/project/python-airzone/) library to connect to a Innobus / Airzone / LocalAPI installation.

Currently it supports Innobus, Aidoo and LocalAPI installations.


## Installation and Configuration

In order to use it, the airzone folder should be placed under the config/custom_components of the HA installation.
The component has two ways of configuring it:

### 1) Using the configuration.yml

To use it in HA add it to the configuration.yml:

```
climate:
  - platform: airzone
    host: ip_of_airzone_gateway / localapi address
    port: 5020 # the aizone port for modbus or localapi
    device_id: 1 # the Innobus machine address id / Aidoo slave id / LocalAPI system id
    device_class: 'innobus' # 'aido' for the aidoo integration / LocalAPI for localapi 
```

### 2) Integrations menu

The component provide a integration workflow that could be used for configuration instead of the yml.

Goto configuration -> Integrations -> Add integration

![alt text](screenshots/airzone_integration.png?raw=true "Integration")

For a proper configuration of the gateway please take a look to the [python-airzone](https://pypi.org/project/python-airzone/) library.


## Innobus / LocalAPI

Given an Innobus MachineID or LocalAPI systemID, this component  discover automatically the Zones associated to them. 
As HA doesn't provide (yet) a proper generic way to handle multiroom / multizones HVAC with a centralized machine, this component creates a climate device for each Machine that interfaces with the Machine state (STOP-AIR-COOL-HOT-HOTPLUS etc...) and a climate device for each of the zones to control them.

Example of climate card as Innobus Machine: 

![alt text](screenshots/innobus_machine.png?raw=true "Innobus Machine")

Example of climate card as Innobus Zone:

![alt text](screenshots/innobus_zone.png?raw=true "Innobus Zone")

Ideally each zone would include the machine control (that is global to all zones on the machine) to avoid having two climate devices for each zone / group.

Commit message:

Localapi one zone (#20)
Merges the Machine / Zone functionality when the localapi only has one zone for a machine, creating one device only.
Closes #16

README.md, after:

# homeassistant-airzone
Home Assistant Custom component to manage Aironze installations.
It relays on the [python-airzone](https://pypi.org/project/python-airzone/) library to connect to a Innobus / Airzone / LocalAPI installation.

Currently it supports Innobus, Aidoo and LocalAPI installations.


## Installation and Configuration

In order to use it, the airzone folder should be placed under the config/custom_components of the HA installation.

Also, the component comply with [HACS](https://github.com/hacs/integration), although it is not published on it, it can be installed as a [custom repository](https://hacs.xyz/docs/faq/custom_repositories)

The component has two ways of configuring it:

### 1) Integrations menu

The component provide a integration workflow that could be used for configuration instead of the yml.

Goto configuration -> Integrations -> Add integration

![alt text](screenshots/airzone_integration.png?raw=true "Integration")

For a proper configuration of the gateway please take a look to the [python-airzone](https://pypi.org/project/python-airzone/) library.

### 2) Using the configuration.yml (being deprecated)

To use it in HA add it to the configuration.yml:

```
climate:
  - platform: airzone
    host: ip_of_airzone_gateway / localapi address
    port: 5020 # the aizone port for modbus or localapi
    device_id: 1 # the Innobus machine address id / Aidoo slave id / LocalAPI system id
    device_class: 'innobus' # 'aido' for the aidoo integration / 'localapi' for localapi 
```

## Innobus / LocalAPI

Given an Innobus MachineID or LocalAPI systemID, this component discover automatically the Zones associated to them. 
As HA doesn't provide (yet) a proper generic way to handle multiroom / multizones HVAC with a centralized machine, this component creates a climate device for each Machine that interfaces with the Machine state (STOP-AIR-COOL-HOT-HOTPLUS etc...) and a climate device for each of the zones to control them.

Example of climate card as Innobus Machine: 

![alt text](screenshots/innobus_machine.png?raw=true "Innobus Machine")

Example of climate card as Innobus Zone:

![alt text](screenshots/innobus_zone.png?raw=true "Innobus Zone")


### Home Assistant devices

Ideally each zone would include the machine control (that is global to all zones on the machine) to avoid having two climate devices for each zone / group.

There is one exception: on such **localapi** installations where each machine only controls one Zone, this components merge the functionality of the machine and the zone in one device, in such case it behaves pretty similar to an Aidoo system.
